I leave party
I study English
I drive bus
I make coffee
I see you
I read books

Present continues:
something happens right now use Present continues + ing
I'm driving
what do you do - I'm reading book
I am you are he is she is we are they are it is

1. I am doing something = I'm in the middle of doing it; I've started doing it and I haven't finished
I'm driving
I'm not driving
Am I driving

I am leaving party
I am studing English
I am driving bus
I am making coffee
I am seeing you

2.  Sometimes the action is not happening at the time of speaking. For example:
I'm reading book
Steve is not reading the book at the time of speaking.
He means that he has started it, but has not finished it yet.
He is in the middle of reading it
You're studing English

3. You can use the present continuous with today / this week / this year
You're working hard today
We driving a log this week
We drinking a log of coffe this year

4. We use the present continuous when we talk about changes happening around now, especially with these verbs:
get change become increase rise fall grow improve begin start

It's getting cold
Wheathere is changing
it's becoming cold
Sun is rising

Presend simple:
l/we/you/they drive/work/do
he/she/it drives/works/does

1. We use the present simple to talk about things in general. We use it to say that something happens all
the time or repeatedly, or that something is true in general:
Nurses look after patients in hospitals
I drive a bus
I like movies
I read books

I drive bus
I don't drive bus
Do I drive bus

What do you do?
What does he doing?

2. We use the present simple to say how often we do things:
I drive bus every day
I watch movies every friday

3. Sometimes we do things by saying something. For example, when you promise to do something,
you can say 'I promise ...'; when you suggest something, you can say ‘I suggest...':
In the same way we say: I apologise ... / 1 advise ... / I insist... / 1 agree ... / I refuse ... etc.

present simple with continues
1.We use the continuous for things happening at
or around the time of speaking.
The action is not complete.
We use the simple for things in general or things that happen repeatedly.
The water is boiling. Can you turn it off
Water boils at 100 degrees Celsius

2. We use the continuous for temporary situations:
We use the simple for permanent situations:
I'm living with some friends until 1 find a place of my own
My parents live in London. They have lived thereall their lives

3. I always do (something) = I do it every time
I always go to work by car. (not I'm aLways going
I've lost my phone again. I'm always losing things.
I'm always losing things = I lose things very often,
perhaps too often, or more often than normal

..
4.We use continuous forms for actions and happenings that have started but not finished (they are
eating / it is raining etc.). Some verbs (for example, know and like) are not normally used in this
way. We don't say 'I am knowing' or ‘they are liking'; we say ‘I know', 'they like'
like want need prefer know realise suppose mean understand believe remember belong fit contain consist seem

When think means ‘believe' or ‘have an opinion', we do not use the continuous:
I think Mary is Canadian, but I'm not sure (not I'm thinking)
When think means ‘consider', the continuous is possible:
I'm thinking about what happened. I often think about it.

See hear smell taste
We normally use the present simple (not continuous) with these verbs:
Do you see that man over there? (not Are you seeing)

Look feel
You can use the present simple or continuous to say how somebody looks or feels now:
 You look well today, or You're looking well today.
but
 I usually feel tired in the morning. (not I'm usually feeling)

